---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Nowhere To Go But Up"
date: 2020-05-14
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - ICS 314
  - Life Lessons
---

<img class="ui medium right floated rounded image" src="/images/comp.jpg" length="800" width="1000">

Coming into 314, I was very excited to experience building an application with a group and working on my web development 
skills. While it took some time to get used to, I ended up looking forward to the Workout of the Day as it allowed me to 
practice and demonstrate what I had learned from the module. The class was fast-paced and intense at times, but that's to be 
expected of a 300-level class, and I honestly enjoyed every minute of the class. During my free time, I found 
myself wanting to make my sites and planning projects to do over the summer to practice the skills that I acquired, such 
as wanting to design a website for my high school's band and orchestra program. 

Besides the technical aspects of the class, I was happy that we were able to develop our professional personas by developing 
our technical portfolio and exercising our project management, communication, and problem-solving skills. Writing these 
technical essays helped me to review the content from the modules, as well as utilize tools such as Grammarly to improve my 
writing. Developing my technical portfolio also helped me to prepare for another program that I had taken this semester, which 
focused on resume/cover letter development and other career-related aspects. You would expect to only go over technical 
concepts in a class like this, but in reality, it allowed me to develop a professional persona and allowed me to interact with 
and make friends with the people in my major. While I have a lot more to learn, I feel that 314 has given me the some very 
valuable tools and that I will need to succeed down the line.

## So Many Environments to Choose From!

The beauty of integrated development environments is that as a developer, you are equipped with a system that makes 
understanding large software systems and debugging them much faster and is more efficient than using non-IDEs such as TextPad 
or NotePad. There are many integrated development environments to choose from such as Visual Studio, Eclipse, and Idea, which 
I have worked with, and I know a lot of people that like to use Visual Studio. With IDEs, they provide support for coding and 
allow you to navigate through your code with ease, from code completion and "quick-fixing" that aids you in searching for 
errors and warnings. These environments also support testing such as setting up and executing unit tests, as well as debugging 
where you can trace your code and find any errors with ease. When all's said and done, the environment also provides code 
refactoring, which allows you to rename variables, methods, classes, and package names that may appear in hundreds of files in 
your application and help to improve readability. While it may seem complicated to use and slower than NotePad or TextPad, it 
will ultimately benefit you in the long run. From the semantics to the aesthetics of your code, these environments have your 
back as you develop your applications and systems. There are many to choose from, so it's essential to find one based on the 
application's domain and the technology stack that you are using. By being able to adjust to different environments and brush 
up on skills that seem challenging, it will end up becoming an asset for you later on, whether it's a technical skill or a 
soft one.

## Keep It Simple

I had taken graphic design classes for two years in high school, so when we had reached the part of the course that focused on 
UI Frameworks, I was ecstatic to be able to apply my skills to this module. With user interface frameworks, it provides you 
with a set of CSS classes and sometimes, Javascript functions that make it easier to design and create layouts. Frameworks 
such as Bootstrap and jQuery, allow developers to make attractive, interactive sites that provide consistent results on any 
browser that you are using. By learning how to utilize these frameworks, it makes web development a whole lot easier: while 
your site may be functioning, if the visual aesthetics are off, then no one will want to use your application! From learning 
HTML5/CSS as well as utilizing Semantic UI React, I learned that sometimes less is more and that there has to be a balance 
between the technical and visual aspects of your application. By learning about UI Frameworks and how you can use them to 
improve accessibility and the overall aesthetic of your application, it allows developers to think outside of the book and 
produce products that are visually appealing and easy to use.

## In the End, Do What You Love, and Make Others Happy in the Process

At the end of the day, we do what we do because we love it, and because we want to help others. With each profession, there is 
an ethical code that we all must observe, and when things enter a gray area, we must be able to professionally handle the 
situation. There is some stigma around developers, with some stereotypes being that they are shut-ins, stuck-up introverts 
with little to no motivation to go outside, and that they just stay in and code, but that's completely false. With developing 
applications, we must be wary of our stakeholders and the people around us. It's the experiences and interactions with others 
that help developers to build systems that are efficient and easy to use; you can be the best programmer in the world if your 
attitude and people skills are not up to par, that means nothing.
