---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: 
date: 2021-05-11
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Agile Project Management/IDPM
  - JavaScript
  - Chart.js
---

## 

I was really excited to take this class after learning that we would have a customer-developer experience and have a local company as our client. To be able to get 
a semi-realistic experience of the industry as well as take another software engineering course was something that I wanted some exposure to. 


## Thinking Of The Customer

This class has taught me to step back at times, move away from a progammer mindset and consider the customer's perspective. There was a constant scenario that I 
would think about throughout the process: I'm a random Joe or Jill on the street being asked to try out this greenhouse gas tracker. The regular Joe or Jill would 
not want to be squinting at multiple graphs to figure out the difference between their carbon emissions for today versus yesterday. Maybe for the administrative 
side, yes. It is kind of the same as if you are putting together a powerpoint presentation for a class: no everyday reader wants to read a wall of text and to 
include a lot of intricate words and long sentences would turn someone off. Personally, I love interactive applications: aesthetically pleasing animations and 
widgets, easy-to-read graphs. Something that is easy to use and easy to understand. One of the biggest takeaways from this class was maintaining a customer-
developer balance. A developer can produce an application with a lot of fancy graphs, complicated widgets and functionalities, but if it is not tailored towards the 
audience that you are developing the application for, then the time spent creating such components is wasted. Meeting with the customer every two to three weeks and 
receiving their feedback helped in maintaining this mindset. Something that I kept in mind was how they appreciated the simplicity in a lot of the components in 
each of the teams' applications. Finding a balance between creating sophisticated yet easy-to-use applications is something that I am working towards, and hope to 
exhibit in other projects down the line.

I contributed to a lot of the user's data page as well as a component that would compare the user's carbon emissions with the average that was calculated using the 
numbers generated from the application's users. Using Chart.js to generate the graphs, I made it such that a pie chart would give the user a summary of their 
mileage per each mode of transportation that they had taken for the month, and a bar graph to generate the cumulative versus user carbon emissions. To display the 
user's data breakdown for the month (i.e. total miles traveled, carbon dioxide produced, etc.), with the aid of one of my teammates, each data field was paired 
with vector art representative of each field and matching to our site's aesthetic. Another user component that was worked on by other members of my group was the 
leaf widget, that would tell the user how close they were to saving a certain amount of carbon dioxide with the leaf filling to a certain amount based on that 
number, as well as how many trees it would have taken to absorb their all time amount of carbon dioxide saved. Similarly, the application would generate a positive 
or negative message if the user was producing more greenhouse gases than making an effort to reduce them by comparing their emission numbers.


## Where to next?

I feel that I have definitely come a long way from my first year where I had little to no programming experience and I have a lot to learn. At 
first, it was intimidating to move away from the shadow of the Meteor template that we had forked as well as the safety nets of the introductory software 
engineering course, so moving forward I want to expose myself to more frameworks and open source tools. We were lucky enough to have someone in our group that was 
versed in web scraping, and it is something that I also want to learn over the summer or later on. On the soft skill side of things, there were of course, our ups 
and downs as a group, but I enjoyed working with them and was really able to work on my team building and communication skills throughout the process. Finally, I am 
really happy that I was able to get a taste of a customer-developer scenario and obtain more exposure to agile project management. Everything from the bi-weekly 
team meetings to communicating with my teammates to having the exposure to front-end and back-end work to figuring out bugs in the calulcations and helper functions 
and the code reviews that would help us become much more savvy about our code and figuring out how to improve it. It had also helped me to understand the project 
management process a little better, to the point where I could talk about it (and it's actually what helped me to do well during my internship interviews).
