---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Thanks, I Hate It!"
date: 2020-04-02
labels:
  - COVID-19
  - Online learning
---

# "Thanks, I Hate It!"

> Man. I actually miss those in-person WODS.

## The New Normal?
With UH announcing that we would be switching to online classes until the end of the semester because of COVID-19, I was not 
bothered by the news. For one, that meant that I could wake up a little later instead of having to scramble to get to the bus 
stop, and I could sleep in between my classes. Besides the academic aspects, I was able to work on other things, such as 
making playlists on Spotify, using Duolingo to practice my Japanese and even tried to learn a little Italian and Russian. I 
managed to start watching a Korean drama on Netflix, and have started to rewatch all of the Star Wars movies (except for 
Episode XI) and attempted to recreate food trends, such as that infamous Dalgona coffee. 

However, I miss walking to my classes and the food courts, getting some coffee from Dunkin' Donuts every Thursday after ICS 
314, and those afternoons where I would be in ICSpace doing notes with other people from ICS 311. I miss going to men's 
volleyball games and doing pep band, and I can't help but reminisce about last semester and my marching band rehearsals. I 
miss the small, tedious things, such as waiting in the Starbucks line in the mornings and waiting for the bus at Sinclair 
Circle. Like everyone else, I miss hanging out with my friends and wandering around the mall with them. It feels like not much 
has changed, but at the same time, everything feels really out of reach and weird. Or, as our wise elders had once said, 
"Thanks! I hate it!"

## School Time, Family Time

Besides the transition to online classes, there are other matters that we have to attend to, such as helping our families and 
friends who may be struggling to cope with these new conditions. I am grateful that I do not have many obligations that I have 
to take on, except for going with my folks to the grocery store to help them shop, and just helping my mom set up her PC for 
work now that she has to work from home. However, I do have friends whose family members had been laid off, as well as friends 
who are struggling with this transition to online classes because of their complicated home life.

## Transition to Online Learning?

What could go wrong? After all, most of my classes for this semester have screencasts or online materials and follow a 
"flipped" model. However, when your bed is right there, and your hoard of snacks are right there, as well as that TV show that 
you want to start? It's not like anyone's going to judge you. 

The transition online due to COVID-19 has made it harder for me to focus on my classes, and entering this online class 
structure, right after Spring Break? It sounded like a recipe for disaster. I do not have a designated study desk or area at 
home, and I just do my work on the dining table, but the space that I usually use is now occupied by my parents during the 
day. The first few days of online classes was a lot of experimenting with other places in my house. This resulted in me using 
my nightstand, a blanket, and a folding stool. I also really miss the face-to-face interactions between me and my friends, as 
it motivates me to work hard in my classes. 

Right now, I am concerned about my grade for Algorithms. While the office hours have been helpful, I have been falling behind 
with doing practice problems alongside watching screencasts and reading the lecture notes and have been struggling with the 
homework. At the same time, it's been something that's forced me to be flexible and has helped me to get out of my comfort 
zone. For 314, I am concerned with the final project as well as with how I have midterms and other projects alongside it. The 
vWODs are fun and doable, but I do miss the thrill that comes with being 
timed, being there in-person and logging down my time on my WOD-velope. 

## These People Are Out Here, Exposing Their True Colors.
I am not as introverted as I think I am.

I usually joke about not wanting to have any social interaction and that I don't mind being alone at home, but social 
distancing has made me realize how much I love being around people, whether it would be engaging in small talk or showing up 
to class to participate in discussions. As much as I love being around my folks, I do miss being able to go out for a coffee 
or some ice cream with my friends. 

I also learned that I have friends that fall on all points of this spectrum of social distancing. On one hand, I see some of 
them camping out in their rooms, engrossed in the new Animal Crossing game and urging others to not go out unless it's really 
necessary, while I see others gathering with their friends at the pool or playgrounds sipping their milk tea like any other 
day. What's scary is that those same people are the ones who preach on social media to stay indoors and follow the stay-at-
home orders. What a bunch of hypocrites.

However, there are a lot of good things that have been happening in the community. I am grateful to all the health care 
workers who are risking their lives to help the sick and know people who are or have family members who are working around the 
clock in the hospitals. It is also really amazing to see people who are willing to help the kupuna by buying their groceries 
for them, especially with the rice, canned goods, and for some reason, toilet paper flying off of the shelves because of panic 
buyers. I am also grateful for the hard work that my professors and TA's are putting in (and I'm not just saying this for a 
good grade!) especially with the short amount of time that they had to change their teaching skills and class structure. 

## Getting "Back on that Grind"

Some changes that I think that I need to make to move forward successfully is to fix my sleep schedule, start my homework 
earlier, as well as make time for myself to relax and interact with my friends. When online classes began, I was struggling to 
get work done during the day because we had just "come back" from Spring Break, so I was still napping during the day and 
still in this relaxed state of mind. I would also put things off, such as new reading material, and would end up cramming it 
at 2 A.M. With this, I also need to start my homework early so that I do not end up rushing to finish it. I can 
focus on the quality of my work, as well as allow myself some time to really understand the content.

Besides academics, I also need to be able to take some time to talk to my friends and walk around, instead of staying in my 
room all day. Especially in a time like this, where anxiety and stress run rampant, it is essential to have a support system 
that you can lean on, whether it is for emotional support or a small friendly conversation. It will take some 
time for me to find the right balance of academics and self-care at this time, and we all are trying to adjust to this 
interesting turn of events, but we all just have to make the most of the situation.
